hey guys welcome to my channel today
we're going to talk about professions
that are gonna be in high demand in five
and ten years and I'm also gonna mention
professions that have no future
according to Forbes monster and
Glassdoor these are resources that have
researched for this video so if you're
interested what to do in five and 10
years continue watching this video
[Music]
a lot of professions are getting
automated we have Amazon go here in San
Francisco people can check out without
talking to others they just go and
they're automatically built for what
they have in their pockets
a lot of automobile companies are
testing driverless taxis and driverless
cars and trucks so low-level jobs are
getting automated robot what it means
for us as human beings it means that in
the future we're gonna lose a lot of
those low-level jobs but it means that
we have a lot more space for creativity
so today I'm gonna talk about markets
that are gonna survive market number one
medicine uh rainbow openings on those
market have been growing really fast
twenty six percent year over here and if
we compare 2010 with projections for it
2020 we're gonna get that there would be
700,000 more jobs and this not only
applies to doctors and of course doctors
are gonna be in high demand it also
applies to people who take care of
people who sit at home like home care
because we started to live longer
I just chatted to a guy here in San
Francisco and he's in his fifties and
he's like I'm gonna live till a hundred
eighty years and he's doing its
biohacking he's working on nutritious
food that gonna help you get all the
vitamins but this means that yes we're
gonna live longer and we're gonna need a
lot more health care sometime second
thing that is thriving on this market is
AI T in medicine and yes a lot of
doctors offices are getting automated
and yes we can create some processes
that are happening in our cells in a lab
and watch how we can affect them and
there are also some magical things that
are happening right now there's this
machine and Stanford called DaVinci
machine and you can perform a surgery
without even being there so it kind of
cuts in the human being and does
whatever needs to be done and you can
have a doctor here in the United States
and that machine in Africa somewhere and
the doctor from here will perform a
surgery and IT in medicine is also a
huge market it's going to reach more
than a hundred billion dollars in
valuation in 2020 and is growing 50%
year-over-year so if you're interested
in that Bursa Korea there you can
have future 100% medicine market number
two creative professions as I mentioned
before a lot of jobs are getting
automated all of the creative
professions are gonna thrive because yes
we have AI but it's not that developed
yet it cannot create awesome photographs
that cannot create awesome videos that
cannot edit videos cannot write text for
you yes it can do some kind of stuff but
it is not yet on a human beings level so
my idea of photographers vloggers
content creators video editors you're
gonna have a lot of future and also like
designers architects there's a huge
future for those professions as well and
action profession number three
salespeople at first I was surprised
there is so much technology that is
automating sales my friend here he
created a company chat fuel and they
have automated boss they're gonna sell
you anything but what research says is
that we're looking for more individual
care and chatbots cannot provide that
yet because again a ai is not that
developed so salespeople have awesome
skills and sales selling stuff your
field is growing sixteen percent
year-over-year and again if we compare
2010 to 2020 we're gonna have 700,000
more openings on those positions good
thing for all of us guys is that a lot
of professions that I'm mentioning in
this video if you have passion for them
if you have enough time you can
definitely learn them online for all of
the potential sales people out there I
just found a course that is called
getting a yes on a platform called skill
share and Skillshare is an online
learning community with thousands of
classes and design business technology
etc and if you get there Premium
Membership you're gonna get unlimited
access to high-quality classes from
experts working their fields and you can
improve their skills and learn from
somebody who's from that market not like
somebody who'd just read a book and you
know is telling you what to do I like
that skill share has all of the creators
that are professionals in what they're
talking about skill share is also more
affordable most learning platforms out
there because an annual subscription is
gonna get you unlimited access just for
ten dollars a month and by the way there
is a link below
it's my exclusive link and five hundred
people who click
I'm gonna get two months for free
industry number for that is gonna need a
lot of people is food industry and yes
again there are machines that are
automating the processes in the industry
I just met a guy who created Cafe X and
this is a cafe that is automated here in
San Francisco click a button you get you
a cup of coffee you're done and also
there was this startup in my Combinator
that created a machine that did
sandwiches but I think they shut it down
anyways there's this trend that some of
the basic jobs are automated in the food
industry but there is also a trend that
people are making more money they spend
less time cooking they spend more time
going out and actually caring about what
they eat so nutritionists good cooks and
people who can create amazing food and
mazing restaurants you're gonna be in
high demand ok come on market number
five occupation number five developers
like any developers software engineer
app developer UX UI designer product etc
whatever is connected with coding and
created products online it's gonna be in
high demand because yes there are still
industries that are merging that are
going from offline into online and yes
we need to help them do that and yes we
need a lot of professionals to do that
and by the way these are really well
paid professionals if you look at the
American market on average software
engineer will make like a hundred
thousand dollars a year for this
profession though you would need a
bachelor's degree and the projected
growth if we think of like 2016 and go
to 2026 the projected growth is more
than 36% and also we're looking at
projected of 1 million employment by
2026 attractive nice software market
number six and this is the market where
I'm in is education and I would
concentrate on post-secondary education
meaning that people are learning
languages people are learning different
skills and I think this traditional
education we just go to classes and
follow the curriculum that is already
set by somebody else is fading away
think of Finland they pray
this new school concept where kids don't
just go to classes that teachers tell
them to attend they select what they
want to do if they want to sing they can
sing the whole day if they want to
construct something then the school
provide resources for that and Finland
just like the top country for education
in the world right now and what I think
is gonna be a trend in the future is
that people would not just go to like
standard school or standard you know
university to get their bachelor's maybe
they would even skip some stages and go
straight into getting some skill like
one year cars and photography one your
course and design or whatever and go
straight into workplace and get real
life experience teachers will be in
really high demand but I would also
emphasize that education is going online
and online education market is growing
at fifteen percent year-over-year so and
a lot of universities are publishing the
forces online and a lot of teachers are
creating their curriculum online so I
would say teachers who can bring their
courses from offline to online a gonna
thrive in the future yeah whose teacher
there are also some professions that
have unfortunately well according to
Forbes monster and Glasser have no
future in the next ten years a lot of
professions that are connected with
agriculture and because yes a lot of
them are gonna be automated for example
farmers ranchers and other agricultural
managers also anything that is connected
with post delivery like Postal Service's
mail men etc and they are also
mentioning some professions that are
connected with data entry because again
there are a lot of programs that can do
that and like data analysis this can be
done by a machine already on the other
hand there are some professions that you
cannot really learn right now but
they're gonna be in a huge demand in
future for example drone operator there
are already so many drones but I haven't
seen like a comprehensive course and row
of drone operating but in the future
we're gonna have them everywhere and we
should not only navigate them we should
also build systems for them to you know
coexist with us another professions we
are a designer I think you can already
learn it but the future of VR is that
you can design something like a
spaceship and people are going to go
into
space can train before they actually fly
trash engineers are gonna be in huge
demand because we have so much trash and
we produce so much trash we need to
utilize it without damaging the earth
the next profession that I can think of
is educational advisor because again
we're going away from this mass-market
education we're going into a more
customizable curriculum and if there is
a person who you can talk to and who's
gonna tell you oh hey your will be good
at this you can take this in that course
and take an internship there and then
you could you're gonna be ready to
conquer the market so this kind of
professions will be really in high
demand in terms of education and the
last thing that I wanted to mention is a
profession called a body slash Oregon
creator brain I just chatted to my
friend from MIT and what he's doing is
that they're growing body parts in pigs
because pigs and humans are really
similar kind of so they're taking humans
DNA
creating a liver in a pig and it's gonna
be hundred percent compatible with that
human they haven't transferred it yet
but this is already what is going on so
people who are specializing in that area
that is a great area for 2020 that
wasn't from you guys thank you so much
for watching this video if you're not
yet subscribed to this channel the red
button is here click it and subscribe if
you like this video please like it and
let me know in comments down below what
do you think is gonna be in high demand
in future in terms of professions talk
to you soon see you soon bye